# MLMania
A repo that contains all of my code from Kaggle's March Machine Learning Mania 2024 competition

## Libraries used
- sklearn (namely `preprocessing` and `MLPRegressor`)
- pandas
- numPy

## Procedure
This was a really interesting ML project that helped me learn more about Neural Networks and actually putting together a front-to-end neural network. We found all of our own data and did all the preprocessing necessary to get the data into the format we wanted to use. Then we split the data into training and test splits, using the data before the 2021 season as the training data and the data from 2021 and after as test data. We created our own `score` column for the dataset based off of our metric of how good a team was. We looked at the list of teams from all years based on how good our score metric said they were and we saw a lot of NCAA Championship winners and very strong teams at the top, so we stuck with this `score` column for our **y_train**. For our **x_train**, we simply used the remainder of the data that we had already preprocessed. We then created a neural network using MLPRegressor with a logistic activation function on these training sets. We decided to create two models, one for results more recent than 2020, and one for results before 2020 (we excluded 2020 due to no NCAA tournament occurring). We appended the results from the two models together, and used this to come up with a score for each team, which we used to determine our bracket (higher score = winner of each matchup). After our first run through, our scores gave us a very chalk bracket (no upsets), so we went back to the drawing board and came up with new weights for the data to hopefully have our model better encapsulate all of the data. It certainly did since our predicted winner went from UConn, the overall 1 seed, to the Florida Gators, a no. 7 seed.

## Takeaways
This project was really interesting and I learned a lot about ML, but our implementation certainly had its flaws. While I liked the data that we ended up using, as it gave a lot of general information about teams, it said nothing about team matchups, coaching, or what kinds of opponents teams struggle against. Information I would have liked to have added are coach experience/skill, better information based on history in the Tournament, and a grouping of teams by playstyle. We tried to add program history in the Tournament by creating a second model and calculating a score for every NCAA tournament team since 2008, taking the average of all scores for a team, but we neglected to weigh the teams based on recency, leading to our model favoring teams with historical success in the tournament, which is likely why our second run through had the Florida Gators winning it all. Another thing I would've loved to incorporate into the model is a matchup chart. Being able to make a probability of winning for each team against each other team in the tournament would be a significant improvement over the general `score` attribute we used here. 
Overall, this project was a great starting point to learn more about ML and Neural Networks, and what it takes to go through the entire process of putting a Neural Network together. I look forward to using my findings from this year to help me win it all next year.
